---
title: "Angular Services"
description: "Angular Services"
author: "Peter Müller"
published_at: 2019-04-14 21:25:02.000000Z
header_source: https://unsplash.com/photos/EhLH-WN7F7I
categories: angular
chapter: Angular Services
chapter_sort: 7.10
---

## Angular Services

Services are instances of TypeScript classes which Angular creates and injects automatically if needed. Services are usually used to handle business logic and provide data in a data-model-layer way to keep components and the user interface clean. Providing data or streams and offering methods to modify data are two major roles where services come into.

## Things you may need to proceed

{% include _topic.html topic="topics/typescript/interfaces.md" %}

## Services

Services are TypeScript classes which become an Angular service by using the `@Injectable` decorator. The decorator must be imported from Angulars core package `@angular/core`. It makes the service injectable.

The following code-snippet is a simple service which returns an array of books.

```ts
// book-data.service.ts
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';

@Injectable({
  provideIn: 'root'
})
export class BookDataService {
  private books = [];

  constructor() {}

  getBooks() {
    return this.books;
  }
}
```

> **Hint:** in Angular usually the Angular CLI is beeing used to generate services including tests out of the box by calling the following command: `ng generate service path/to/service/service-name`.

## Service Injection

Once the service is defined and decorated with `@Injectable({ provideIn: 'root'  })` it can be injected within other services, modules, components, directives and pipes. Angular takes care of the class instantiation. The instance of the service is a global singleton and will be reused across the application.

Simply pass the service as an argument to the constructor. By declaring visiblity using private, protected or public the argument becomes implicitly a class property an can be accessed by `this.bookDataService`.

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { BookDataService } from '../path/to/book-data.service';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-book-list',
  templateUrl: 'book-list.component.html',
  stylesUrl: 'book-list.component.css'
})
class BookListComponent {

  constructor(private bookDataService: BookDataService) {}
}
```

Now the service can be used to get the books and present them in the component template. Follow up with [Angular Dependency Injection](/angular/dependency-injection) to understand what happens under the hood and how to empower services.
